
Enchanting
"Enchant" redirects here. For the command, see Commands/enchant. For the Minecraft Dungeons mechanic, see Minecraft Dungeons:Enchanting.

An enchanting table surrounded by bookshelves.
Enchanting is the process of augmenting armor, tools, and weapons. A glint animation appears on items to show that they are enchanted.


Contents
1	Enchanting equipment
2	Enchanting methods
2.1	Enchanting table
2.1.1	Affecting offered enchantments
2.2	Anvil combinations
2.3	Enchanted books
2.3.1	Best Enchanting order
3	Disenchanting
4	Summary of enchantments
5	Summary of enchantments by item
6	Maximum effective values for enchantments
7	Data values
7.1	Item data
8	Sounds
9	Video
10	History
11	Issues
12	Gallery
12.1	Screenshots
12.2	Development images
13	Trivia
14	See also
15	References
16	External links
17	Navigation
Enchanting equipment
Name	Icon	Usage
Enchanting Table	
Invicon Enchanting Table.png: Inventory sprite for Enchanting Table in Minecraft as shown in-game linking to Enchanting Table with description: Enchanting Table
Used to enchant items.
Bookshelf	
Invicon Bookshelf.png: Inventory sprite for Bookshelf in Minecraft as shown in-game linking to Bookshelf with description: Bookshelf
Allows the enchanting table to apply higher-level enchantments. Each bookshelf increases the level requirement of enchantments given by the enchanting table by two, up to a max of 30 (or 15 bookshelves).
Lapis Lazuli	
Invicon Lapis Lazuli.png: Inventory sprite for Lapis Lazuli in Minecraft as shown in-game linking to Lapis Lazuli with description: Lapis Lazuli
Required to power the enchanting table (up to three per item).
Anvil	
Invicon Anvil.png: Inventory sprite for Anvil in Minecraft as shown in-game linking to Anvil with description: Anvil
Used to combine enchanted items (tools, armor, weapons, etc.), add enchantments from books, or repair an item while preserving enchantments. Each time an anvil is used on an item, the xp cost for future uses on that item increases exponentially
Grindstone	
Invicon Grindstone.png: Inventory sprite for Grindstone in Minecraft as shown in-game linking to Grindstone with description: Grindstone
Used to remove all non-curse enchantments on an item, returning a small amount of experience, and optionally combine the durability of two items (plus an additional 5% durability) an item for no experience.
Enchanted Book	
Invicon Enchanted Book.png: Inventory sprite for Enchanted Book in Minecraft as shown in-game linking to Enchanted Book with description:
Can be combined with another item through an anvil to add certain enchantments to the item. This costs experience points based on the enchantment and its level.
Enchanting methods

The glint animation applied to an enchanted iron pickaxe.
There are four ways to enchant an item in Survival mode:

Using an enchanting table, place an unenchanted item and lapis lazuli in their respective slots, and apply an enchantment at the cost of experience.
Using an anvil, combine an enchanted book with an item.
Using an anvil, combine two of the same item with different existing enchantments into a single item that has the enchantments of both.
A librarian villager may enchant books in exchange for emeralds, granting the player experience just like every trade.
A player may also obtain items already enchanted:

A villager may trade some enchanted items for emeralds.
Fishing gives a chance of obtaining enchanted items.
A zombie, drowned, husk, piglin, skeleton, bogged, stray, wither skeleton, and zombified piglin, if it has an enchanted item and is killed by a player, has an 8.5% chance to drop each individual item.
Treasure chests in locations such as end cities, ancient cities, shipwrecks, mineshafts, monster rooms, desert pyramids, jungle pyramids, woodland mansions, ocean ruins, strongholds, ruined portals, pillager outposts, and bastion remnants may contain enchanted items.
To barter with piglins, give them gold, and they have a small chance to drop an enchanted book or iron boots with the Soul Speed enchantment (random level 1-3).
In Bedrock Edition, pillagers and vindicators in raids may drop enchanted items.
Server operators and players in singleplayer worlds with cheats enabled can also enchant items using commands such as /enchant. When enchanted with the /give command, the maximum enchantment level is 255 on Java Edition. In Creative mode, items can be enchanted via an anvil and enchanted books, with no experience points required. Enchanted books are available in the Creative mode inventory, with individual book displays for the highest level of each enchantment and other levels available via the "Search" tab.

The enchanted golden apple, despite its name and glint, is not the enchanted form of any item and is completely different from the golden apple.

Enchanting table
Main article: Enchanting mechanics

Enchanting table interface.
An item can be enchanted by using an enchanting table and placing the item and 1–3 lapis lazuli in the input slots. Upon placing the item, three (pseudo)randomized options appear on the right of the GUI. The glyphs, written in Standard Galactic Alphabet, do not affect the enchantment, but hovering over a presented enchantment shows one enchantment to be applied. On mobile devices, the player can tap an enchantment before putting in the lapis lazuli or hold the enchantment before release. The only choices available have a level requirement equal to or below the player's current level and a lapis lazuli requirement equal to or below the number of lapis lazuli placed in the table. Each option imbues the item with a randomized set of enchantments that are dependent on the number of experience levels required (e.g. a level 30 enchantment can give a pickaxe the "Efficiency II" enchantment); the actual level cost and the number of lapis lazuli required have no effect.

Although the player must have at least the level requirement to get an enchantment, the number of levels that the player is charged is the same as the lapis lazuli requirement. For example, if the third enchantment listed is a level 30 enchantment, the player must have at least 30 levels, but pay only 3 levels and 3 lapis lazuli.

The level requirement influences the quantity, type, and level of enchantments instilled in the item, with a higher experience level generally resulting in more and/or higher-level enchantments. Nevertheless, there is a significant random factor, and even a level 30 enchantment (the maximum) doesn't guarantee more than one enchantment, or even that enchantments are "maximum strength" — a level 30 enchantment can still yield Fortune II or Efficiency III alone, for example. On the other hand, it is possiblе for multiple different enchantments to be given from one use of the enchanting table. For example, a level 30 enchantment applied to a pickaxe may yield both Efficiency IV and Unbreaking III. However, certain selected enchants never give any additional enchantment, regardless of which tool is enchanted, such as Efficiency IV and Knockback II.‌[BE only][verify]

To increase the enchantment level, bookshelves can be placed next to the enchanting table while keeping one block of air between them. To gain access to the previously mentioned level 30 enchantments, a minimum of 15 bookshelves need to be placed around the enchanting table. See the Enchantment Mechanics page for more detailed information on this.

Enchanting a book produces an enchanted book, which does nothing on its own, but effectively "saves" the enchantment for later application to another item with an anvil.

Unlike with an anvil, using the enchanting table while on Creative still costs experience. However, if the player doesn't have enough experience, then experience reduces to zero and the enchantment still works, even when using the enchanting table while already at level zero.

Affecting offered enchantments
Enchanting any item at any enchantment level changes the player's enchantment seed, which changes the possible enchantments for every item at every enchantment level. Thus, if none of the available enchantments for a tool are desired, 1 lapis lazuli and 1 level could be spent to enchant a book or a different tool to refresh the list.

The possible enchantments depend on the player's enchantment seed, the item type, and material, and the enchantment level (1–30). The following actions do not affect the possible enchantments:

removing the item and putting it back in
clicking on the item slot with a different item
using a different item of the same type and material
replacing or moving the table (but keeping the same number of bookshelves)
using a different table with the same number of bookshelves, or
replacing or rearranging the bookshelves without changing their total number.
Changing the enchantment levels offered by adding, removing, or blocking bookshelves alters the enchantments shown, but does not change possible enchantments; using another enchanting table with the previous bookshelf number still shows the previous enchantments. The enchantments for a particular enchantment level (with the same seed and item) do also differ depending on which row they appear in, but they are not "better" or "worse" based on the row despite the different resource costs.

Anvil combinations
Main article: Anvil mechanics
An anvil can be used to combine the enchantments of two items, sacrificing one of them and repairing the other. The items must be compatible; they must either be the same type and material (such as two iron swords) or an item and an enchanted book with an applicable enchantment (such as a bow and an Infinity enchanted book).

Combining two enchanted items, books or one of each with the same enchantment at the same level produces an item or book with the next higher level of that enchantment up to the maximum allowed in Survival mode; for example, a book with Thorns I and Unbreaking II combined with a book with Unbreaking II produces a book with Thorns I and Unbreaking III.

To combine items, the player places the target item in the anvil's first slot and the sacrifice item in the second slot. If the combination is allowed, the resulting enchanted item appears in the anvil's output slot and an experience level cost, labeled "Enchantment Cost", appears below (green if the player has enough experience levels, red if they don't). To complete the enchanting, the player removes the enchanted item from the anvil's output slot, and their experience level is reduced accordingly.

The experience cost depends on the enchantments, with highly enchanted items costing more. If the target item is also being repaired, that costs more as well. The target item can also be renamed, at additional cost. There is also an accumulating surcharge for prior work done on anvils. In Survival mode, work that costs more than 39 levels of experience is refused although it may still be possible to perform the same work in steps. For example, a damaged enchanted bow may be repaired on an anvil with an ordinary bow, and then another enchanted bow may be used to combine enchantments with the repaired bow.

Enchanted books
Main article: Enchanted Book
Enchanted books can be made by enchanting a book in an enchanting table at the cost of experience points. They can also be found in the chests of several structures, purchased with emeralds from a librarian villager, or caught while fishing.

Enchanted books can be applied to tools, weapons, and armor, or combined with other enchanted books in an anvil. In this way, some enchantments that cannot normally be obtained on an item through use of the enchanting table can still be applied to those items, such as applying Thorns to boots.

Although enchanted books can have multiple enchantments of any type, only enchantments appropriate to a given item type are applied to that item when combined in an anvil. For example, an enchanted book may have both the Respiration and Power enchantments, but the Respiration enchantment is lost if the book is applied to anything but a helmet. Likewise, the Power enchantment is lost if the book is applied to anything but a bow.

In Creative mode, enchanted books can be used to apply any enchantment to any item, such as a stick having Knockback II on Java Edition. However, mutually-exclusive enchantments, such as Infinity and Mending, cannot be applied this way or even via /enchant (though both enchantments function as normal when obtained on a bow through the /give command).

The experience costs for using books are considerably less than for combining items with similar enchantments since the books themselves cost levels to create. However, it's still an extra cost, and enchanting items directly has a chance to get multiple enchantments. The advantage of books is that they can be stockpiled for use on an item of choice and allow for controlled combinations. For example, a Silk Touch book can be used on an axe, pickaxe, or shovel, and the player can decide which item receives which enchantment.

Best Enchanting order
Use Order Calculator to minimize experience loss when merging two items.

Disenchanting
The main way to disenchant items is via the grindstone or by repairing the items via the crafting grid. Using the grindstone removes all enchantments (except for curses) but gives some experience back based on the level of the enchantment(s) and their value. If a block is placed, it loses all the enchantments it has.

Summary of enchantments
See also: Enchanting/Levels
"Enchantment" redirects here. For the definition of enchantments in data packs, see Enchantment definition.
Each enchantment in the table below includes attributes that are possible for the player to acquire legitimately in Survival mode. Other combinations are possible in Creative mode or with cheats, mods, or third-party software.

Max Level: Maximum levels for enchantments vary, but the game can comprehend up to 32-bit integer values (−231 to 231−1). Exceeding this value results in an overflow, and eventually resets itself to 0.
Primary Items: The items that can receive the enchantment legitimately in Survival mode by using an enchanting table. Items of any material can be enchanted (some more easily than others – see Enchantment mechanics).
Secondary Items: Items that, in Survival mode, cannot receive the enchantment from an enchanting table but can from an enchanted book with an anvil.
Weight: Relative probability of the enchantment being offered.
Name	Summary	Treasure[note 1]	Tradable[note 2]	Incompatible
With	Max
Level	Primary
Items	Secondary
Items	Weight
Aqua Affinity	Removes the mining speed reduction that occurs when underwater.	No	Yes		I			2
Bane of Arthropods	Increases damage and applies Slowness IV to arthropod mobs (spiders, cave spiders, silverfish, endermites and bees).	No	Yes	Smite, Sharpness, Breach, Density	V	‌[BE only]	‌[JE only]	5
Blast Protection	Reduces explosion damage and knockback.
No	Yes	Fire Protection, Protection, Projectile Protection	IV			2
Breach	Reduces the effectiveness of armor on the target, including innate armor points.	No	Yes	Density, Bane of Arthropods, Smite, Sharpness	IV			2
Channeling	During thunderstorms, a thrown trident summons a lightning bolt on the target upon hit.	No	Yes	Riptide	I			1
Curse of Binding
Items cannot be removed from armor slots.	Yes	Yes		I			1
Curse of Vanishing
Item disappears on death.	Yes	Yes		I		‌[BE only]	1
Density	Increases the damage of a mace's smash attack.	No	Yes	Breach, Bane of Arthropods, Smite, Sharpness	V			5
Depth Strider	Lessens the movement speed reduction that occurs when in water.	No	Yes	Frost Walker	III			2
Efficiency	Increases mining efficiency.	No	Yes		V			10
Feather Falling	Reduces fall damage.	No	Yes		IV			5
Fire Aspect	Sets targets on fire.	No	Yes		II			2
Fire Protection	Reduces fire damage and burning time.	No	Yes	Blast Protection, Protection, Projectile Protection	IV			5
Flame	Arrows set targets on fire.	No	Yes		I			2
Fortune	Chance to receive more item drops from certain blocks.	No	Yes	Silk Touch	III			2
Frost Walker	Turns water into frosted ice beneath the wearer's feet, and provides immunity to campfire and magma block damage.	Yes	Yes	Depth Strider	II			2
Impaling	In Java Edition, increases damage against aquatic mobs. In Bedrock Edition, increases damage against mobs in water or rain.	No	Yes		V			2
Infinity	Prevents consumption of arrows, but not spectral arrows or tipped arrows.	No	Yes	Mending	I			1
Knockback	Increases melee knockback.	No	Yes		II			5
Looting	Chance to receive more item drops from certain mobs.	No	Yes		III			2
Loyalty	Returns the trident to its owner upon landing after being thrown.	No	Yes	Riptide	III			5
Luck of the Sea	Increases the rate of treasure items from fishing.	No	Yes		III			2
Lure	Decreases time for bites when fishing.	No	Yes		III			2
Mending	Repairs the item using experience.	Yes	Yes	Infinity	I			2
Multishot	Adds 2 arrows to the sides of the center arrow, at the cost of increasing incurred durability damage.	No	Yes	Piercing	I			2
Piercing	Causes fired arrows to pierce entities, allowing for a single arrow to hit multiple mobs, and allows arrows to be picked up again after hitting a target.	No	Yes	Multishot	IV			10
Power	Increases arrow damage.	No	Yes		V			10
Projectile Protection	Reduces damage from projectiles.	No	Yes	Protection, Blast Protection, Fire Protection	IV			5
Protection	Reduces most forms of damage.	No	Yes	Blast Protection, Fire Protection, Projectile Protection	IV			10
Punch	Increases arrow knockback.	No	Yes		II			2
Quick Charge	Increases crossbow charging speed.	No	Yes		III			5
Respiration	Extends underwater breathing time.	No	Yes		III			2
Riptide	Trident when used launches the wielder while in water or rain, replacing its ability to be thrown as a projectile.	No	Yes	Channeling, Loyalty	III			2
Sharpness	Increases melee damage.	No	Yes	Bane of Arthropods, Smite, Breach, Density	V	‌[BE only]	‌[JE only]	10
Silk Touch	Certain blocks that would otherwise drop different items or nothing will drop themselves instead.	No	Yes	Fortune	I		‌[BE only]	1
Smite	Increases damage dealt against undead mobs.	No	Yes	Bane of Arthropods, Sharpness, Breach, Density	V	‌[BE only]	‌[JE only]	5
Soul Speed	Movement speed on soul sand is increased instead of decreased, and movement speed on soul soil is increased.	Yes	No		III			1
Sweeping Edge
‌[Java Edition only]	Increases the damage of a sword sweep attack. This increase applies to nearby entities that are close to the attacked entity, but does not apply to the attacked entity itself.	No	Yes		III			2
Swift Sneak	Lessens the movement speed reduction that occurs when sneaking.	Yes	No		III			1
Thorns	Random chance to damage entities that attack the user, at the cost of increasing incurred durability damage.	No	Yes		III	‌[BE only]‌[BE only]‌[BE only]‌[BE only]	‌[JE only]‌[JE only]‌[JE only]‌[JE only]	1
Unbreaking	Gives a chance for items to ignore durability loss, effectively increasing their durability.	No	Yes		III			5
Wind Burst	Causes a burst of wind upon executing a mace smash attack that launches the attacker upward.	Yes	No		III			2
Cleaving ​[upcoming JE Combat Tests]	Increases the damage and shield stun time of an axe.
No	Yes	Sharpness, Bane of Arthropods, Smite	III			2
 Treasure enchantments are those that can't be obtained using an enchanting table and aren't generated on randomly enchanted equipment sold by villagers or worn by mobs. If a treasure enchantment is tradable, it has double the price (before capping to 64 emeralds) compared to a non-treasure enchantment of the same level.
 Tradable enchantments are those that can be generated on Enchanted Books sold by librarians.
This does not cover book trading options in the Villager Trade Rebalance experiment.
Randomly enchanted tradable equipment generates only non-treasure enchantments.
Summary of enchantments by item
See also: Tutorial:Best enchantments guide
Enchantments that have multiple levels are shown with their maximum level numbers. Mutually exclusive enchantments can be combined using commands (e.g., /give @s bow[enchantments={infinity:1,mending:1}]). Also, a player can exceed the maximum levels of enchantments (e.g., /give @s netherite_sword[enchantments={fire_aspect:10}]). However, if that number goes above 10 the translation string is exposed and it looks like this:

Invicon Netherite Sword.png: Inventory sprite for Netherite Sword in Minecraft as shown in-game linking to Netherite Sword with description: Netherite Sword Sharpness.enchantment.level.12 Looting III Unbreaking VII Mending 14.5 Attack Damage 1.6 Attack Speed
[1]

Item	Any combination of	Only one from each column
Helmet	Mending, Unbreaking III, Thorns III, Respiration III, Aqua Affinity, Curse of Binding, Curse of Vanishing	Protection IV, Projectile Protection IV, Fire Protection IV, Blast Protection IV	
Turtle Shell
Chestplate	Mending, Unbreaking III, Thorns III, Curse of Binding, Curse of Vanishing
Leggings	Mending, Unbreaking III, Thorns III, Swift Sneak III, Curse of Binding, Curse of Vanishing
Boots	Mending, Unbreaking III, Thorns III, Feather Falling IV, Soul Speed III, Curse of Binding, Curse of Vanishing	Depth Strider III, Frost Walker II
Sword	Mending, Unbreaking III, Fire Aspect II, Looting III, Knockback II, Curse of Vanishing, Sweeping Edge III‌[JE only]	Sharpness V[note 1], Smite V, Bane of Arthropods V	
Mace	Mending, Unbreaking III, Fire Aspect II, Wind Burst III, Curse of Vanishing	Smite V, Bane of Arthropods V, Density V, Breach IV	
Axe	Mending, Unbreaking III, Efficiency V[note 2], Curse of Vanishing	Fortune III, Silk Touch	Sharpness V[note 1], Smite V, Bane of Arthropods V, Cleaving III​[upcoming JE Combat Tests]
Pickaxe	
Shovel
Hoe
Bow	Unbreaking III, Power V, Punch II, Flame, Curse of Vanishing	Infinity, Mending	
Fishing Rod	Mending, Unbreaking III, Lure III, Luck of the Sea III, Curse of Vanishing		
Trident	Mending, Unbreaking III, Impaling V, Curse of Vanishing	Channeling	Loyalty III
Riptide III[note 3]
Crossbow	Mending, Unbreaking III, Quick Charge III, Curse of Vanishing	Piercing IV, Multishot	
Shears	Mending, Unbreaking III, Efficiency V, Curse of Vanishing, Silk Touch‌[BE only]		
Elytra	Mending, Unbreaking III, Curse of Binding, Curse of Vanishing		
Shield	Mending, Unbreaking III, Curse of Vanishing		
Flint and Steel
Carrot on a Stick
Warped Fungus on a Stick
Brush
Compass	Curse of Vanishing		
Recovery Compass‌[BE only]
 Only golden weapons can receive Sharpness V directly through the enchanting table. For all other weapon tiers (wooden, stone, iron, diamond, and netherite), an anvil is required to apply Sharpness V to them, though iron and diamond swords can generate with Sharpness V in end city and bastion remnant chests and iron axes with Sharpness V can be found in trial chambers barrels.
 Tools of any material except stone and diamond can receive up to Efficiency V through the enchanting table. Stone tools can receive up to level IV through the enchanting table, but can be given Efficiency V by combining 2 items with Efficiency IV in an anvil. Diamond tools with efficiency V can also be found in end city and bastion remnant chests.
 Channeling and Loyalty can be used together but neither can be used with Riptide.
The tables below summarize the enchantments that can be obtained on specific items in Bedrock Edition and in Java Edition Survival mode (Any enchantment can be applied to any item in Java Edition Creative mode). Enchantments that can be applied to both hand slot items and armor slot items are listed in both tables.

An enchanting table BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft indicates the item can receive the enchantment from an enchanting table.
An anvil BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft indicates the item cannot receive the enchantment from an enchanting table, but can receive the enchantment by using an anvil to combine the item with an enchanted book or another enchanted item.
Enchantments for hand slot items
Enchantment (Max)	ItemSprite sword.png: Sprite image for sword in Minecraft	ItemSprite axe.png: Sprite image for axe in Minecraft‌[JE only]	ItemSprite axe.png: Sprite image for axe in Minecraft‌[BE only]	ItemSprite pickaxe.png: Sprite image for pickaxe in MinecraftItemSprite shovel.png: Sprite image for shovel in MinecraftItemSprite hoe.png: Sprite image for hoe in Minecraft	ItemSprite shears.png: Sprite image for shears in Minecraft	
ItemSprite bow.png: Sprite image for bow in Minecraft

ItemSprite fishing-rod.png: Sprite image for fishing-rod in Minecraft	ItemSprite flint-and-steel.png: Sprite image for flint-and-steel in MinecraftItemSprite carrot-on-a-stick.png: Sprite image for carrot-on-a-stick in MinecraftItemSprite warped-fungus-on-a-stick.png: Sprite image for warped-fungus-on-a-stick in MinecraftItemSprite shield.png: Sprite image for shield in MinecraftItemSprite brush.png: Sprite image for brush in Minecraft	ItemSprite trident.png: Sprite image for trident in Minecraft		ItemSprite crossbow.png: Sprite image for crossbow in Minecraft	ItemSprite compass.png: Sprite image for compass in MinecraftItemSprite recovery-compass.png: Sprite image for recovery-compass in Minecraft‌[BE only]
Bane of Arthropods (V)	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft							BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft		
Breach (IV)										BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft		
Channeling (I)									BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft			
Cleaving (III) ​[upcoming JE Combat Tests]		BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft										
Curse of Vanishing (I)	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft
Density (V)										BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft		
Efficiency (V)		BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft							
Fire Aspect (II)	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft									BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft		
Flame (I)						BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft						
Fortune (III)		BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft								
Impaling (V)									BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft			
Infinity (I)						BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft						
Knockback (II)	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft											
Looting (III)	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft											
Loyalty (III)									BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft			
Luck of the Sea (III)							BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft					
Lure (III)							BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft					
Mending (I)	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	
Multishot (I)											BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	
Piercing (IV)											BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	
Power (V)						BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft						
Punch (II)						BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft						
Quick Charge (III)											BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	
Riptide (III)									BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft			
Sharpness (V)	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft									
Silk Touch (I)		BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft‌[BE only]							
Smite (V)	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft							BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft		
Sweeping Edge (III)	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft											
Unbreaking (III)	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	
Wind Burst (III)										BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft		
Enchantments for armor slot items
Enchantment (Max)	ItemSprite helmet.png: Sprite image for helmet in MinecraftItemSprite turtle-shell.png: Sprite image for turtle-shell in Minecraft	ItemSprite chestplate.png: Sprite image for chestplate in Minecraft	ItemSprite leggings.png: Sprite image for leggings in Minecraft	ItemSprite boots.png: Sprite image for boots in Minecraft	ItemSprite elytra.png: Sprite image for elytra in Minecraft	BlockSprite carved-pumpkin.png: Sprite image for carved-pumpkin in MinecraftBlockSprite heads.png: Sprite image for heads in Minecraft
Aqua Affinity (I)	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft					
Blast Protection (IV)	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft		
Curse of Binding (I)	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft
Curse of Vanishing (I)	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft
Depth Strider (III)

BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft		
Feather Falling (IV)				BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft		
Fire Protection (IV)	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft		
Frost Walker (II)				BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft		
Mending (I)	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	
Projectile Protection (IV)	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft		
Protection (IV)	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft		
Respiration (III)	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft					
Soul Speed (III)				BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft		
Swift Sneak (III)			BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft			
Thorns (III)	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft‌[JE only]	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft‌[JE only]	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft‌[JE only]		
BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft‌[BE only]	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft‌[BE only]	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft‌[BE only]
Unbreaking (III)	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	BlockSprite enchanting-table.png: Sprite image for enchanting-table in Minecraft	BlockSprite anvil.png: Sprite image for anvil in Minecraft	
Maximum effective values for enchantments

This section is missing information about: a better lead section with a better summary. 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.
The table below shows the effective limits for enchantments (also found here).

Enchantment	Stackable	Effective min	Effective max	Notes
Aqua Affinity	Largest on first in armor	1	1	
Bane of Arthropods	Adds	Single:
-2147483648
Stacked:
-52241757371157708	Single:
2147483647
Stacked:
52241757371157708	Adds 2.5 * level damage
Affects arthropods with slowness IV for 1 + random(0, level / 2) seconds
Blast Protection	Adds	1	10	Reduces damage by a factor of min(20, level * 2) / 25
Reduces explosion knockback by a factor of level * 0.15
Higher levels are treated as 10
Breach	Reduces	0	Single:
2147483647
Stacked:
36028799149670399	Reduces armor effectiveness by 15%
Channeling	First	1	1	
Curse of Binding	First	1	1	
Curse of Vanishing	First	1	1	
Density	Adds	0	Single:
2147483647
Stacked:
36028799149670399	Adds 0.5 * max(0, level - 1) + 1 damage by fall height
Depth Strider	Largest on first in armor	1	3	Higher levels are treated as 3
Efficiency	First	1	255	Increases mine speed by level² + 1
Higher levels are treated as 255
Feather Falling	Adds	1	7	Reduces damage by a factor of min(20, level * 3) / 25
Fire Aspect	First	1	255	Sets mobs on fire for level * 4 seconds
Higher levels are treated as 255
Fire Protection	Adds for damage reduction
Largest of first in armor for duration reduction	1	10	Reduces damage by a factor of min(20, level * 2) / 25
Reduces fire duration by a factor of level * 0.15
Flame	First	1	1	
Fortune	First	1	255	Anything that uses the apply_bonus loot table function works like this
Higher levels are treated as 255
Frost Walker	First	1	14	Higher levels are treated as 14
Impaling	Adds	Single:
-2147483648
Stacked:
-52241757371157708	Single:
2147483647
Stacked:
52241757371157708	Adds 2.5 * level damage
Infinity	First	1	1	
Knockback	First	1	255	Adds level knockback strength
Higher levels are treated as 255
Looting	First	1	255	Higher levels are treated as 255
Loyalty	First	1	127	Increases return speed by 0.05 * level
Higher levels are treated as 0
Luck of the Sea	First	1	255	Adds level luck
Higher levels are treated as 255
Lure	First	1	5	Reduces lure time by 5 * level seconds
Higher levels prevent fish from appearing
Mending

First	1	1	
Multishot	First	1	255	Every levels add 2 to the amount of arrows fired to bows and crossbows. e.g. Multishot I = 1 Arrow + 2 Arrows = 3.
Piercing	First	1	127	Higher levels are treated as 0
Power	First	1	255	Increases damage by 0.5 * level + 0.5
Higher levels are treated as 255
Projectile Protection	Adds	1	10	Reduces damage by a factor of min(20, level * 2) / 25
Protection	Adds	1	20	Reduces damage by a factor of min(20, level) / 25
Punch	First	1	255	Adds level * 0.6 knockback strength
Higher levels are treated as 255
Quick Charge	First	1	5	Reduces draw time by 0.25 * level seconds
Higher levels prevent charging of crossbow
Respiration	Largest of first in armor	1	255	Causes a level / (level + 1) chance not to decrease air level
Higher levels are treated as 255
Riptide	First	1	255	Throws the player (6 * level) + 3 blocks while in rain, or (4 * level) + 3 blocks while underwater
Sharpness	Adds	0	Single:
2147483647
Stacked:
36028799149670399	Adds 0.5 * max(0, level - 1) + 1 damage
Silk Touch	First	1	1	
Smite	Adds	Single:
-2147483648
Stacked:
-52241757371157708	Single:
2147483647
Stacked:
52241757371157708	Adds 2.5 * level damage
Soul Speed	First	1	255	Increases speed by 0.03 + (level * 0.0105)
Higher levels are treated as 255
Sweeping Edge	First	1	255	Increases sweeping damage by a factor of level / (level + 1) times the hit's damage
Higher levels are treated as 255
Swift Sneak	Adds	1	5	Increases walking speed while sneaking by level * 15%
Higher levels are treated as 5
Thorns	Individual Procs	1	2147483647	Chance of hitting is 0.15 * level
Deals level - 10 damage if level is 11 or greater, otherwise deals random(0, 3) + 1
Unbreaking	First	1	255	Items have a 1 in level + 1 chance to take damage. Armor has a 0.6 chance to take damage even if it would otherwise skip it.
Higher levels are treated as 255
Wind Burst	Adds	1	255	Adds 1.15 + 0.35 * level by launching
Data values
Item data
Java Edition:

See also: Data component format
[NBT Compound / JSON Object] components: the item's components tag.
[NBT Compound / JSON Object] minecraft:enchantments: Contains key-value pairs of levels of enchantments on this item that affect the way the item works.
[Int] <enchantment ID>: A single key-value pair, where the key is the resource location of an enchantment, and the value is the level.
[NBT Compound / JSON Object] minecraft:stored_enchantments: Contains key-value pairs of levels of enchantments stored on this enchanted book.
[Int] <enchantment ID>: A single key-value pair, where the key is the resource location of an enchantment, and the value is the level.
[Int] minecraft:repair_cost: The number of experience levels to add to the base level cost when repairing, combining, or renaming this item with an anvil. Must be a non-negative integer, defaults to 0.
Bedrock Edition:

See also: Bedrock Edition level format/Item format
Sounds
Java Edition

[]Sounds
Sound	Subtitles	Source	Description	Resource location	Translation key	Volume	Pitch	Attenuation
distance
​Enchanting Table used	Blocks	When an item is enchanted	block.enchantment_table.use​[sound 1]​	subtitles.block.enchantment_table.use​​[sound 1]​	1.0	0.9-1.0	16
 MC-218109
Bedrock Edition:

[]Sounds
Sound	Source	Description	Resource location	Volume	Pitch
Blocks	When an item is enchanted	block.enchanting_table.use	1.0	1.0
Video

History

This section is missing information about: Mention each version that added an enchantment. 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.
October 1, 2011	The first images of the enchantment screen are revealed, with enchantments written in the Standard Galactic Alphabet. The first enchantment translates into "Well Played Internets You Are Good", the second translates into "These Names Will Be Random And Confusing", and the third translates to "Each Spell Costs Experience Levels". The Standard Galactic Alphabet or SGA was originally created by Tom Hall for use in the Commander Keen series of computer games.
October 3, 2011	The first images of a player wearing enchanted armor are revealed.
[]Java Edition
1.0.0	Beta 1.9 Prerelease 3	The basics of enchanting have been added.
Enchantment tables do not require bookshelves to get maximum enchantments.
Enchantments are to be labeled in the enchantment table as random words written in the Standard Galactic Alphabet.
Beta 1.9 Prerelease 4	A bug where all enchantments would show up as Feather Falling I has been fixed.
Enchanting has been now properly enabled in multiplayer. Previously, if a player attempted to enchant an item, it appeared enchanted for the client, but updated with the un-enchanted status once the player logged out and then back in again.
1.2.1	12w05a	Enchanting no longer requires experience in Creative mode.
12w06a	Bows and golden swords now have a small chance of being already enchanted when dropped by their respective mobs.
1.3.1	12w22a	The maximum enchantment power has been lowered from 50 to 30; as a result, the amount of bookshelves required to reach the maximum enchantment power has lowered from 30 to 15.
The 3rd enchantment slot in an enchanting table is always set at the highest possible level (depending on the amount of bookshelves), instead of being random like the other slots (requiring clicking the item in and out many times to get a maximum level enchantment).
1.4.2	12w41a	Enchantments can be combined using anvils, allowing some high level enchantments to be applied where they were not previously possible.
1.4.4	pre	Enchantments can be applied using /enchant. However, Protection is unavailable due to a bug.
1.4.6	12w49a	/enchant now works with ID 0, meaning it can be used to apply Protection.
The player can now enchant books to then be used to enchant a tool.
1.7.2	13w36a	The fishing rod can be enchanted without the use of books.
1.8	14w02a	Enchanting has received a major overhaul where there is now a secondary cost, which is lapis lazuli.
When enchanting an item, one enchantment now appears in the tooltip when selecting an enchantment (e.g Looting III?...).
Level 5 enchants (Sharpness, Power, Smite and Bane of Arthropods) can be applied without the use of an anvil.
Villager trading has been revamped: clerics no longer enchant items, while blacksmiths trade enchanted items.
Experience cost was reduced from a cost equal to the enchant level to a flat 1, 2, or 3
1.9	15w42a	Enchantments with a max level of 1 no longer display the level, e.g. "Infinity" rather than "Infinity I".
15w47b	Shears can no longer be enchanted with Silk Touch.
15w47c	Shears now harvest cobweb without requiring Silk Touch.
1.11.1	Anvils no longer allow enchanted books to apply to items, if no change in enchantments would take effect. This can occur if all enchantments on the book are incompatible with existing enchantments on the item – or if the enchanted book has no enchantments.
1.13	17w47a	Hoes can be enchanted.
18w21a	When an item is enchanted, its rarity tier is now increased from its base rarity. "Common" and "uncommon" items become "rare", "rare" items become "epic", and "epic" items remain the same.
1.16	20w10a	Hoes can be enchanted with Efficiency, Fortune and Silk Touch.
1.17.1	Pre-release 1	The maximum enchantment level that can be read has been changed to 255.[2]
1.20.5	24w03a	Axes can now receive Sharpness, Smite and Bane of Arthropods through an enchanting table, rather than only through an anvil.
Helmets, leggings, and boots can now receive Thorns through an enchanting table, rather than only through an anvil.
24w09a	The projectile weapon enchantments Infinity, Flame, Multishot, Piercing, Power, and Punch now work on both crossbows and bows, if placed onto the alternative weapon using data manipulation or a change to the enchantable/* tags.
24w12a	Axes can no longer receive Sharpness, Smite and Bane of Arthropods through an enchanting table.
Helmets, leggings and boots can no longer receive Thorns through an enchanting table.
[]Pocket Edition Alpha
v0.12.1	build 1	Added the enchanting system.
[]Bedrock Edition
1.4.0	beta 1.2.13.11	When Experimental Gameplay is enabled, tridents can be enchanted.
1.16.0	beta 1.16.0.57	Hoes can be enchanted with Efficiency, Fortune and Silk Touch.
1.21.30	Preview 1.21.30.21	When an item is enchanted, its rarity tier is now increased from its base rarity. "Common" and "uncommon" items become "rare", "rare" items become "epic", and "epic" items remain the same.
Preview 1.21.30.22	Enchantments with a max level of 1 no longer display the level, e.g. "Infinity" rather than "Infinity I".
[]Legacy Console Edition
Xbox 360	Xbox One	PS3	PS4	PS Vita	Wii U	Switch	
TU7	CU1	1.00	1.00	1.00	Patch 1	1.0.1	Added the enchanting system.
The enchanting system is equivalent to the version from Java Edition 1.3.1.
The maximum level for enchantments is 30 instead of 50.
The player can receive experience from smelting and/or mining ores. The player can recieve experience from breeding.
Bows are enchantable.
TU31	CU19	1.22	1.22	1.22	Patch 3	The fishing rod can be enchanted without the use of books.
Enchanting now consumes lapis lazuli.
Enchanting has been re-balanced.
Enchanted books can now receive multiple enchantments at once.
Villager trading has been revamped: clerics no longer enchant items, while blacksmiths trade enchanted items.
TU36	CU25	1.28	1.28	1.28	Patch 7	Up to 3 enchantments of the held item are now shown when changing the selected hotbar slot.
[]New Nintendo 3DS Edition
0.1.0	Added enchantments.